How to contribute?
==================


Python developer tools
----------------------

The TensorWaves repository comes with a set of Python developer tools. They are
defined in the `requirements-dev.txt
<https://github.com/ComPWA/tensorwaves/blob/master/requirements-dev.txt>`_
file, which means you can install them all in one go with:

.. code-block:: shell

  pip install -r requirements_dev.txt

Most of the tools defined come with specific configuration files (e.g.
`pyproject.toml
<https://github.com/ComPWA/tensorwaves/blob/master/pyproject.toml>`_ for `black
<https://black.readthedocs.io/>`_, `.pylintrc
<https://github.com/ComPWA/tensorwaves/blob/master/.pylintrc>`_ for `pylint
<http://pylint.pycqa.org/en/latest/>`_, and `tox.ini
<https://github.com/ComPWA/tensorwaves/blob/master/tox.ini>`_ for `flake8
<https://flake8.pycqa.org/>`_ and `pydocstyle <http://www.pydocstyle.org/>`_).
These config files **define our convention policies**. If you run into
persistent linting errors this may mean we need to further specify our
conventions. In that case, it's best to create an issue and propose a policy
change that can then be formulated in the config files.

All checks are enforced through a tool called `pre-commit
<https://pre-commit.com/>`_. Upon committing, :code:`pre-commit` runs a set of
checks defined in the file `.pre-commit-config.yaml
<https://github.com/ComPWA/tensorwaves/blob/master/.pre-commit-config.yaml>`_
over all staged files. You can also quickly run all checks over all files with
the command:

.. code-block:: shell

  pre-commit run -a

This command is also run on Travis CI whenever you submit a pull request,
ensuring that all files in the repository follow the conventions set in the
config files of these tools.


Testing
-------

Try to keep test coverage high. You can test current coverage by running

.. code-block:: shell

  pytest

Note that we navigated into the `tests
<https://github.com/ComPWA/tensorwaves/tree/master/tests>`_ directory first as
to avoid testing the files in the :doc:`source code directory
</install/get-the-source-code>`. You can view the coverage report by opening
:file:`htmlcov/index.html`.


Git
---

* Please use
  `conventional commit messages <https://www.conventionalcommits.org/>`_: start
  the commit with a semantic keyword (see e.g. `Angular
  <https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#type>`_ or
  `these examples <https://seesparkbox.com/foundry/semantic_commit_messages>`_,
  followed by `a column <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-interpret-trailers>`_,
  then the message. The message itself should be in imperative mood â€” just
  imagine the commit to give a command to the code framework. So for instance:
  :code:`feat: add coverage report tools` or :code:`fix: remove ...`.

* In the master branch, each commit should compile and be tested. In your own
  branches, it is recommended to commit frequently (WIP keyword), but squash
  those commits upon submitting a merge request.


Python conventions
------------------

* Follow :pep:`8` conventions.

* Any Python file that's part of a module should contain (in this order):

  1. A docstring describing what the file contains and does, followed by two
  empty lines.

  2. A definition of `__all__
     <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html#importing-from-a-package>`_,
     so that you can see immediately what this Python file defines, **followed
     by two empty lines**.

  3. Only after these come the :code:`import` statements, following the
     :pep:`8` conventions for imports.

* When calling or defining multiple arguments of a function and multiple
  entries in a data container, split the entries over multiple lines and end the
  last entry with a comma, like so:

  .. code-block:: python

    __all__ = [
        'core',
        'optimizer',
        'physics',
        'plot',
    ]

  This is to facilitate eventual `diff <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff>`_
  comparisons in Git.


Visual Studio code
------------------

We recommend using `Visual Studio Code <https://code.visualstudio.com/>`_ as
it's free, regularly updated, and very flexible through it's wide offer of user
extensions.

If you add or open this repository to/as a `VSCode workspace
<https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces>`_, the
:file:`.vscode/settings.json` will ensure that you have the right developer
settings for this repository.

You can still specify your own settings in `either the user or encompassing
workspace settings <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings>`_,
as the VSCode settings that come with this are folder settings.
